All this will not be finished in the first one hundred days. Nor will it be finished 
in the first one thousand days. . . nor in the life of this administration, nor even 
perhaps in our lifetime on this planet. But let us begin.

In your hands, my fellow citizens. . .more than mine. . .will rest the final success 
or failure of our course. Since this country was founded, each generation of Americans 
has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty. The graves of young 
Americans who answered the call to service surround the globe. Now the trumpet summons 
us again... not as a call to bear arms, though arms we need. . .not as a call to battle
... though embattled we are. . .but a call to bear the burden of a long twilight 
struggle. . .year in and year out, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation. . .a 
struggle against the common enemies of man: tyranny. . .poverty. . .disease. . .and 
war itself. Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance. . .North a
nd South. . . East and West. . .that can assure a more fruitful life for all mankind? 
Will you join in that historic effort?

In the long history of the world, only a few generations have been granted the role 
of defending freedom in its hour of maximum danger; I do not shrink from this 
responsibility. . .I welcome it. I do not believe that any of us would exchange places 
with any other people or any other generation. The energy, the faith, the devotion 
which we bring to this endeavor will light our country and all who serve it. . .and 
the glow from that fire can truly light the world.

And so, my fellow Americans. . .ask not what your country can do for you. . .ask 
what you can do for your country. My fellow citizens of the world. . .ask not what 
America will do for you, but what together we can do for the Freedom of Man.

Finally, whether you are citizens of America or citizens of the world, ask of us 
here the same high standards of strength and sacrifice which we ask of you. With a 
good conscience our only sure reward, with history the final judge of our deeds; let 
us go forth to lead the land we love, asking His blessing and His help, but knowing 
that here on earth God's work must truly be our own. 
